- [Instructor] Now let us take a look
at the Exception Handling part of Spring MVC.
Exception handling, of course, is managed
by a DispatcherServlet.
We've already spoken of this before.
But how?
So whenever an exception occurs in your application,
the DispatcherServlet is going
to delegate the responsibility of exception handling
to the HandlerExceptionResolver special bean type.
Now this special bean has many implementations
inside the framework.
We will look at those in a minute.
We spoke about exception handling,
we said that DispatcherServlet is going to do
that stuff for us, but what does exception handling
actually mean in an application?
So let's say you have an exception
that has occurred in your application.
You will have to decide the next course of action
for that exception.
Do you want to just go back to that calling method
and throw that exception again?
Or, do you want to extract the error message
from the exception object, and carry it to your views
so that it is displayed to the user?
One of these approaches is exactly the mechanism
of exception handling.
And, why is that needed?
If you have an exception that has happened
in your application, generally, Java will show you
the stack trace on the console.
If you do not do exception handling in your application,
that entire stack trace will go and get displayed
on the views in your application's website.
Now, the user is layman.
And he, or she, would not be able to make any sense
out of that stack trace information
that was displayed on the user.
So that is really not an intuitive experience
for the user.
Moreover, you do not want to risk trying
to expose the code level details
on an HTML inside a browser.
That's a risky business.
So, it is necessary that
whenever you have exceptions happening in your application,
you need to do a graceful exit,
a graceful handling, so that appropriate error messages,
which are user friendly, are displayed on the view.
And that's why you do exception handling
in your application.
Now, the special bean type resolve for exception handling
has many implementations in Spring MVC.
Let's see them one by one.
The first one is ExceptionHandlerExceptionResolver.
Now these names are a little confusing,
so just read them one by one.
You do not need to remember them.
Okay, so what does this first one do?
It will give you a way to define exception handler methods
in your controller classes.
These methods will be dedicated only to exception handling,
and they will annotated using @ExceptionHandler annotation.
We are going to see a demo
for this ExceptionHandlerResolver in our HPlus application
going further.
The next one is SimpleMappingExceptionResolver.
Now this is supposed to be registered
inside your configuration context file of Spring.
And it offers you an API, where you can map one exception
to a particular error page.
So let's say you have a design in your application
where you want to show specific error messages
for specific kind of exceptions,
this resolver is the way to go.
The next one is DefaultHandlerExceptionResolver.
Now, as the name suggests, it is the default implementation
that's already active inside the Spring MVC framework.
And it'll be available for your application too.
What does it do?
So, if, let's say, there was an exception
that occurred in your application,
which falls in the list of the exceptions
from the Spring MVC exception hierarchy,
then this resolver is going to map that exception
to its predefined corresponding status code.
That's what it going to do for you.
The last one is ResponseStatusExceptionResolver,
which is very similar
to the DefaultHandlerExceptionResolver.
The difference being is that it is going to work
for your custom exceptions.
In our applications we often have a practice
of writing our own custom exception classes.
Then those classes have to be annotated
with @ResponseStatus annotation,
and that has to be also provided with an HTTP status code.
So let's say that custom exception gets thrown
in your application, then this resolver is going
to come to rescue, map that exception according to the code
that was provided as a part
of the @ResponseStatus annotation.
In the next video, we are going to create a demo
where we will produce an exception,
and we will pick up the first
ExceptionHandlerExceptionResolver
to do the exception handling for our application.